So before we get to anything more
complicated, we have to understand some
things about how WebAssembly is executed
and how we get those instructions.
So we're gonna talk about the Stack and
Opcodes.
WebAssembly is a Stack machine,
that is everything
that happens is either pushed or
popped off a Stack.
And we can only have so
much or we can only have so
much information in the Stack at once.
This seems similar you're probably Jam I
know Stack that I've taken all the front
end masters courses on data structures and
operating algorithms things like that.
This is a different Stack,
the Stack that you're probably
thinking of it's a data structure.
in JavaScript, we usually use an array to
represent it, it uses lasting first out.
This is not that, this is a machine Stack,
as in, we load variables.
So actually,
let's go back to our other example.
So in this case with git local,
it's pushing that number onto the Stack.
So that primary patch then
it pushes onto the Stack.
So now we now have a pointer to
this number that we passed in.
And then it just returns that pointer.
And fortunately during the compilation
process it, it writes it to memory.
And then JavaScript when we use it,
it pulls that back out of memory.
And that's what's happening
under the hood here.
But everything we see in WebAssembly
is pushing and popping off the Stack.
That's it,
that's all the commands we're gonna run.
At its core, it's such a basic concept and
it seems really really simple.
But, we see the complexity in that,
how do we do things like fore
loops if it's just a Stack?
How do we do things like
trying to think of more,
it's difficult to do more complex
engineering when it's only pushing and
popping information off the Stack,
and we can only do that one at a time.
This is also different than the call
Stack that you know of in JavaScript,
which is a similar concept.
But again, it's different because
JavaScript is not a Stack machine.
It uses a heap, for
its data underlying data structure.
Versus WebAssembly,
which only has a Stack which has
this really tiny portion of memory.
It's always reading and
pulling from the memory and
doing all the operations internally.
That is part of what makes assembly so
fast,
is that it doesn't have to
worry about garbage collection.
It doesn't have to worry about
memory that's been dereferenced or
anything like that, because it's all just
a really simple right here right now.
What's on my Stack?
Pushing and popping.
Okay, I won't go too
much more into the sack.
But when we get to a more complicated
example, which we do later,
you'll see exactly what I mean.
Opcodes.
Remember how I said that all computer
instructions at its core are just numbers
and the numbers represent something based
on the architecture on the CPU that
we're using.
So in this case, probably an x86.
x86 has a whole bunch of instructions,
and at the core just numbers.
So when we say something like get which,
like get local or
something like that,
that corresponds to a specific hex code,
which corresponds to a specific
machine instruction.
Yeah, we're low down we
are [LAUGH] We are down here in
the CPU in this low level code.
But because WebAssembly is designed to be
friendly, we have Opcodes, which are just
representations of these hex codes which
are actually just machine level codes.
But because we can't read hex that well,
[LAUGH] We have these helpful Opcodes.
Think of an Opcode as just
a computer instruction code, but
we call it Opcode code shorter.
Actually here is a really
cool interactive table.
And I know cool is completely relative.
[LAUGH] But
I think it's pretty cool, but it is.
Okay.
Loaded, is that big enough everybody see,
though small I can only make it so
big and see the whole table but.
Alright, so here is a list of
all of the WebAssembly opcodes.
So this is a list of all of the possible
instructions that we can perform
in WebAssembly, which is pretty cool.
Because it fits in a table.
It's a large table.
Yes, but it fits in a table versus if we
looked at all the possible instructions we
can do in JavaScript,
it would be hundreds of pages long.
WebAssembly is much simpler.
With that simplicity,
we get more complexity because we have
less obfuscation, but at the core of it,
these are everything we're gonna do is
using one of these operation codes.
So one of these instruction codes.
Opcodes are based exactly on the type
of number that we're dealing with.
Today we're only doing
dealing with 32 bit integers.
So all four opcodes
are prefixed with I 32.
But you also do 64 bit integers,
floating point numbers, things like that.
Let me pick one and we'll hover over it,
I'll pick an easy one.
Less than greater than add,
adds an easy one equal and or
think multiply.
Yep.
So the way to read this is I
because it's a Stack machine,
the Stack is gonna take the last
two things off the Stack.
So it's gonna pop the last two
numbers that are on the Stack and
then perform an operation and
it's going to return.
It's gonna multiply those numbers together
and it's going to return a 32 bit integer.
The shortcut or the actual machine
instruction that we're calling is 0X6C.
For a 32 bit integer, but
because that would be tedious to write and
it wouldn't make any sense.
We say I 32 dot multiply.
And there's also a multiply for 64 bit
integers, floating point, numbers, etc.
Due to the portability of WebAssembly and
the fact that it's gonna run on
many platforms, we have this such
specificity when it comes to operations.
So it's a good time to give
another shout out to JavaScript,
which does all this stuff for you.
You don't have to worry about types.
It does type conversion for you.
If you wanna deal with integers or
floating point numbers,
it does all that for you.
You can multiply, divide, add, you
don't care about the underlying memory,
architecture.
But because we're writing WebAssembly,
we do care.
And we have to be very explicit about
what we're doing because we're literally
telling the computer what to do,
how to move these bits of data around.
Thus the specificity.
Again, if I showed you this table in
the beginning, you'd be like what?
What?
Translate what?
It's not really working.
Okay, so this is a helpful reference.
I won't even show you
the official WebAssembly docs,
cuz remember I showed you earlier and
it's just like this jumble of information.
This to me is probably one of the more
useful sites you're gonna use in terms of
what can and can't you do in WebAssembly.
And this tells you everything you can do,
so it's a bit harder to read but
so lt dash S is less than,
but it's unsigned.
So we're talking about sign
in unsigned integers earlier,
subtraction, multiplication,
things like that.
And we can declare, and just real quick
cuz this isn't quite an operation,
it's an operation but
it doesn't actually do anything.
If we wanna declare just a number,
we would say I 32.const, and
then at that point we're pushing
a 32-bit integer onto the Stack.
I forgot the name of the person
who wrote this page, but
shout out to them because they took a lot
of really hard to understand information
and put it into a nice table format.
So, shout out to Pengo Ray.
Don't know who you are but respect.
All right, And interactive
table that we talked a bit earlier
about 32 bit integer, 64 bit integers.
Okay.
So, because we're talking about
WebAssembly is a Stack machine.
And we're always pushing and
popping from the Stack.
We take this example of a multiplication
example, we get local one.
Remember the locals are the variables,
we're passing into a function.
And then we get local, or
we get local 0 because it's zero index.
We get local 1.
We can use 1 or 0, or we can use the
actual name of the parameters themselves.
I like to use the name of
the parameters because, well, again,
I write code to be
readable by other humans.
But if you want,
you can get them in order.
So if we add three parameters,
we're passing through a function,
we can say get local zero,
get a local one, get local two, and
it's the same thing or
you can call them by name directly.
And then we multiply.
And this right here is it's a little
confusing because when you just
look at it if you had no idea
what I just said 20 minutes ago,
you look at it and you're, wait,
what operations being performed?
Because in JavaScript,
if you wanna multiply two numbers,
it would be number 1,
times number 2, output something.
But in WebAssembly, that is all implied
you have to understand what's being pushed
in pop to the Stack at all times.
And you have to understand that this
operation is gonna pull both values in
the Stack and multiply them together.
If it seems I'm spending a lot of time on
it, it's because as a JavaScript engineer,
it's not intuitive to me what's happening.
It's kind of the first time you see.
Someone help me on the chat.
What's it called when it's like 2, 2 an
a plus, we're saying that my CS teachers.
I'm blanking right now,
I'll think of it later.
But it's really good binary.
But it's a different way of looking
at operations instead of doing
operation number.
Now, we're just purely using Stack.
And these are all just pointers to memory,
and then that computer instruction reads
from those two pointers, executes them,
and then clears the Stack.